README.md, before:

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/material-components-web.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/material-components-web)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/259087343246508035.svg)](https://discord.gg/material-components)

# Material Components for the web

Material Components for the web helps developers execute [Material Design](https://www.material.io).
Developed by a core team of engineers and UX designers at Google, these components enable a reliable development workflow to build beautiful and functional web projects.

Material Web strives to seamlessly incorporate into a wider range of usage contexts, from simple static websites to complex, JavaScript-heavy applications to hybrid client/server rendering systems. In short, whether you're already heavily invested in another framework or not, it should be easy to incorporate Material Components into your site in a lightweight, idiomatic fashion.

Material Components for the web is the successor to [Material Design Lite](https://getmdl.io/). In addition to implementing the [Material Design guidelines](https://material.io/design), it provides more flexible theming customization, not only in terms of color, but also typography, shape, states, and more. It is also specifically [architected](docs/code/architecture.md) for adaptability to various [major web frameworks](docs/framework-wrappers.md).

> NOTE: Try out our in-progress [Material Web Components](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-web-components) built on the W3C web components standard. Use them in your next web project and let us know how to improve by filing [bugs and feature requests](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-web-components/issues).

## Important links

- [Getting Started Guide](docs/getting-started.md)
- [Demos](https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-catalog)
- [Material on other frameworks](docs/framework-wrappers.md)
- [Examples using Material Web](docs/examples.md)
- [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Material Design Guidelines](https://material.io/design) (external site)
- [Supported browsers](docs/supported-browsers.md)
- [All Components](packages/)
- [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md)

## Quick start

### Using via CDN

```html
<!-- Required styles for Material Web -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.css">

<!-- Render textfield component -->
<label class="mdc-text-field mdc-text-field--filled">
  <span class="mdc-text-field__ripple"></span>
  <span class="mdc-floating-label" id="my-label">Label</span>
  <input type="text" class="mdc-text-field__input" aria-labelledby="my-label">
  <span class="mdc-line-ripple"></span>
</label>

<!-- Required Material Web JavaScript library -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.js"></script>
<!-- Instantiate single textfield component rendered in the document -->
<script>
  mdc.textField.MDCTextField.attachTo(document.querySelector('.mdc-text-field'));
</script>
```

> Please see [quick start demo](https://codepen.io/abhiomkar/pen/gQWarJ) on codepen for full example.

### Using NPM

> This guide assumes you have webpack configured to compile Sass into CSS. To configure webpack, please see the full [getting started guide](docs/getting-started.md). You can also see the final code and result in the [Material Starter Kit](https://glitch.com/~material-starter-kit).

Install textfield node module to your project.

```
npm install @material/textfield
```

#### HTML

Sample usage of text field component. Please see [Textfield](packages/mdc-textfield) component page for more options.

```html
<label class="mdc-text-field mdc-text-field--filled">
  <span class="mdc-text-field__ripple"></span>
  <input type="text" class="mdc-text-field__input" aria-labelledby="my-label">
  <span class="mdc-floating-label" id="my-label">Label</span>
  <span class="mdc-line-ripple"></span>
</label>
```

#### CSS

Load styles required for text field component.

```scss
@use "@material/floating-label/mdc-floating-label";
@use "@material/line-ripple/mdc-line-ripple";
@use "@material/notched-outline/mdc-notched-outline";
@use "@material/textfield";

@include textfield.core-styles;

```

#### JavaScript

Import `MDCTextField` module to instantiate text field component.

```js
import {MDCTextField} from '@material/textfield';
const textField = new MDCTextField(document.querySelector('.mdc-text-field'));
```

This'll initialize text field component on a single `.mdc-text-field` element.

> Please see [quick start demo](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/remix/new-web) on glitch for full example.

## Need help?

We're constantly trying to improve our components. If Github Issues don't fit your needs, then please visit us on our [Discord Channel](https://discord.gg/material-components).

Commit message:

refactor(button): organize sass by feature
PiperOrigin-RevId: 351266720

README.md, after:

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/material-components-web.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/material-components-web)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/259087343246508035.svg)](https://discord.gg/material-components)

# Material Components for the web

Material Components for the web helps developers execute [Material Design](https://www.material.io).
Developed by a core team of engineers and UX designers at Google, these components enable a reliable development workflow to build beautiful and functional web projects.

Material Web strives to seamlessly incorporate into a wider range of usage contexts, from simple static websites to complex, JavaScript-heavy applications to hybrid client/server rendering systems. In short, whether you're already heavily invested in another framework or not, it should be easy to incorporate Material Components into your site in a lightweight, idiomatic fashion.

Material Components for the web is the successor to [Material Design Lite](https://getmdl.io/). In addition to implementing the [Material Design guidelines](https://material.io/design), it provides more flexible theming customization, not only in terms of color, but also typography, shape, states, and more. It is also specifically [architected](docs/code/architecture.md) for adaptability to various [major web frameworks](docs/framework-wrappers.md).

> NOTE: Material Components Web tends to release breaking changes on a monthly basis, but follows
> [semver](https://semver.org/) so you can control when you incorporate them.
> We typically follow a 2-week release schedule which includes one major release per month with breaking changes,
> and intermediate patch releases with bug fixes.

## Important links

- [Getting Started Guide](docs/getting-started.md)
- [Demos](https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-catalog)
- [Material on other frameworks](docs/framework-wrappers.md)
- [Examples using Material Web](docs/examples.md)
- [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Material Design Guidelines](https://material.io/design) (external site)
- [Supported browsers](docs/supported-browsers.md)
- [All Components](packages/)
- [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md)

## Quick start

### Using via CDN

```html
<!-- Required styles for Material Web -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.css">

<!-- Render textfield component -->
<label class="mdc-text-field mdc-text-field--filled">
  <span class="mdc-text-field__ripple"></span>
  <span class="mdc-floating-label" id="my-label">Label</span>
  <input type="text" class="mdc-text-field__input" aria-labelledby="my-label">
  <span class="mdc-line-ripple"></span>
</label>

<!-- Required Material Web JavaScript library -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.js"></script>
<!-- Instantiate single textfield component rendered in the document -->
<script>
  mdc.textField.MDCTextField.attachTo(document.querySelector('.mdc-text-field'));
</script>
```

> Please see [quick start demo](https://codepen.io/abhiomkar/pen/gQWarJ) on codepen for full example.

### Using NPM

> This guide assumes you have webpack configured to compile Sass into CSS. To configure webpack, please see the full [getting started guide](docs/getting-started.md). You can also see the final code and result in the [Material Starter Kit](https://glitch.com/~material-starter-kit).

Install textfield node module to your project.

```
npm install @material/textfield
```

#### HTML

Sample usage of text field component. Please see [Textfield](packages/mdc-textfield) component page for more options.

```html
<label class="mdc-text-field mdc-text-field--filled">
  <span class="mdc-text-field__ripple"></span>
  <input type="text" class="mdc-text-field__input" aria-labelledby="my-label">
  <span class="mdc-floating-label" id="my-label">Label</span>
  <span class="mdc-line-ripple"></span>
</label>
```

#### CSS

Load styles required for text field component.

```scss
@use "@material/floating-label/mdc-floating-label";
@use "@material/line-ripple/mdc-line-ripple";
@use "@material/notched-outline/mdc-notched-outline";
@use "@material/textfield";

@include textfield.core-styles;

```

#### JavaScript

Import `MDCTextField` module to instantiate text field component.

```js
import {MDCTextField} from '@material/textfield';
const textField = new MDCTextField(document.querySelector('.mdc-text-field'));
```

This'll initialize text field component on a single `.mdc-text-field` element.

> Please see [quick start demo](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/remix/new-web) on glitch for full example.

## Need help?

We're constantly trying to improve our components. If Github Issues don't fit your needs, then please visit us on our [Discord Channel](https://discord.gg/material-components).
