packages/mdc-switch/README.md, before:

<!--docs:
title: "Switches"
layout: detail
section: components
iconId: switch
path: /catalog/input-controls/switches/
-->

# Switches

<!--<div class="article__asset">
  <a class="article__asset-link"
     href="https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-catalog/#/component/switch">
    <img src="{{ site.rootpath }}/images/mdc_web_screenshots/switches.png" width="37" alt="Switches screenshot">
  </a>
</div>-->

Switches toggle the state of a single setting on or off. They are the preferred way to adjust settings on mobile.

## Design & API Documentation

<ul class="icon-list">
  <li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--spec">
    <a href="https://material.io/go/design-switches">Material Design guidelines: Switches</a>
  </li>
  <li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link">
    <a href="https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-catalog/#/component/switch">Demo</a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Installation

```
npm install @material/switch
```

## Basic Usage

### HTML Structure

```html
<div class="mdc-switch">
  <div class="mdc-switch__track"></div>
  <div class="mdc-switch__thumb-underlay">
    <div class="mdc-switch__thumb">
        <input type="checkbox" id="basic-switch" class="mdc-switch__native-control" role="switch">
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<label for="basic-switch">off/on</label>
```

### Styles

```scss
@import "@material/switch/mdc-switch";
```

### JavaScript Instantiation

The Switch requires JavaScript to function, so it is necessary to instantiate MDCSwitch with the HTML.

```js
import {MDCSwitch} from '@material/switch';

const switchControl = new MDCSwitch(document.querySelector('.mdc-switch'));
```

> See [Importing the JS component](../../docs/importing-js.md) for more information on how to import JavaScript.

## Variant

### Initially Disabled Switch

Add the `mdc-switch--disabled` class to the `mdc-switch` element, and the `disabled` attribute to the `mdc-switch__native-control` element to disable the switch. This logic is handled by the `MDCSwitchFoundation.setDisabled` method, but you'll want to avoid a FOUC by initially adding this class and attribute.

```html
<div class="mdc-switch mdc-switch--disabled">
  <div class="mdc-switch__track"></div>
  <div class="mdc-switch__thumb-underlay">
    <div class="mdc-switch__thumb">
      <input type="checkbox" id="another-basic-switch" class="mdc-switch__native-control" role="switch" disabled>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<label for="another-basic-switch">off/on</label>
```

### Initially "On" Switch

Add the `mdc-switch--checked` class to the `mdc-switch` element, and the `checked` attribute to the `mdc-switch__native-control` element to toggle the switch to "on". This logic is handled by the `MDCSwitchFoundation.setChecked` method, but you'll want to avoid a FOUC by initially adding this class and attribute.

```html
<div class="mdc-switch mdc-switch--checked">
  <div class="mdc-switch__track"></div>
  <div class="mdc-switch__thumb-underlay">
    <div class="mdc-switch__thumb">
      <input type="checkbox" id="another-basic-switch" class="mdc-switch__native-control" role="switch" checked>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<label for="another-basic-switch">off/on</label>
```

## Style Customization

### CSS Classes

CSS Class | Description
--- | ---
`mdc-switch` | Mandatory, for the parent element.
`mdc-switch--disabled` | Optional, styles the switch as disabled
`mdc-switch--checked` | Optional, styles the switch as checked ("on")
`mdc-switch__track` | Mandatory, for the track element.
`mdc-switch__thumb-underlay` | Mandatory, for the ripple effect.
`mdc-switch__thumb` | Mandatory, for the thumb element.
`mdc-switch__native-control` | Mandatory, for the hidden input checkbox.

### Sass Mixins

MDC Switch uses [MDC Theme](../mdc-theme)'s `secondary` color by default for the checked (toggled on) state.
Use the following mixins to customize _enabled_ switches. It is not currently possible to customize the color of a
 _disabled_ switch. Disabled switches use the same colors as enabled switches, but with a different opacity value.

Mixin | Description
--- | ---
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-color($color)` | Sets the base color of the track, thumb, and ripple when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-color($color)` | Sets the base color of the track, thumb, and ripple when the switch is toggled off.
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-track-color($color)` | Sets color of the track when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-track-color($color)` | Sets color of the track when the switch is toggled off.
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-thumb-color($color)` | Sets color of the thumb when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-thumb-color($color)` | Sets color of the thumb when the switch is toggled off.
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-ripple-color($color)` | Sets the color of the ripple surrounding the thumb when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-ripple-color($color)` | Sets the color of the ripple surrounding the thumb when the switch is toggled off.

## `MDCSwitch` Properties and Methods

Property | Value Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`checked` | Boolean | Setter/getter for the switch's checked state
`disabled` | Boolean | Setter/getter for the switch's disabled state

## Usage within Web Frameworks

If you are using a JavaScript framework, such as React or Angular, you can create a Switch for your framework. Depending on your needs, you can use the _Simple Approach: Wrapping MDC Web Vanilla Components_, or the _Advanced Approach: Using Foundations and Adapters_. Please follow the instructions [here](../../docs/integrating-into-frameworks.md).

### `MDCSwitchAdapter`

| Method Signature | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `addClass(className: string) => void` | Adds a class to the root element. |
| `removeClass(className: string) => void` | Removes a class from the root element. |
| `setNativeControlChecked(checked: boolean)` | Sets the checked state of the native control. |
| `setNativeControlDisabled(disabled: boolean)` | Sets the disabled state of the native control. |

### `MDCSwitchFoundation`

| Method Signature | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `setChecked(checked: boolean) => void` | Sets the checked value of the native control and updates styling to reflect the checked state. |
| `setDisabled(disabled: boolean) => void` | Sets the disabled value of the native control and updates styling to reflect the disabled state. |
| `handleChange(evt: Event) => void` | Handles a change event from the native control. |

### `MDCSwitchFoundation` Event Handlers
If wrapping the switch component it is necessary to add an event handler for native control change events that calls the `handleChange` foundation method. For an example of this, see the [`MDCSwitch`](component.ts) component's `initialSyncWithDOM` method.

| Event | Element Selector | Foundation Handler |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `change` | `.mdc-switch__native-control` | `handleChange()` |

Commit message:

feat(switch): add ripple opacity customization mixins (#5126)

packages/mdc-switch/README.md, after:

<!--docs:
title: "Switches"
layout: detail
section: components
iconId: switch
path: /catalog/input-controls/switches/
-->

# Switches

<!--<div class="article__asset">
  <a class="article__asset-link"
     href="https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-catalog/#/component/switch">
    <img src="{{ site.rootpath }}/images/mdc_web_screenshots/switches.png" width="37" alt="Switches screenshot">
  </a>
</div>-->

Switches toggle the state of a single setting on or off. They are the preferred way to adjust settings on mobile.

## Design & API Documentation

<ul class="icon-list">
  <li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--spec">
    <a href="https://material.io/go/design-switches">Material Design guidelines: Switches</a>
  </li>
  <li class="icon-list-item icon-list-item--link">
    <a href="https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-catalog/#/component/switch">Demo</a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Installation

```
npm install @material/switch
```

## Basic Usage

### HTML Structure

```html
<div class="mdc-switch">
  <div class="mdc-switch__track"></div>
  <div class="mdc-switch__thumb-underlay">
    <div class="mdc-switch__thumb">
        <input type="checkbox" id="basic-switch" class="mdc-switch__native-control" role="switch">
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<label for="basic-switch">off/on</label>
```

### Styles

```scss
@import "@material/switch/mdc-switch";
```

### JavaScript Instantiation

The Switch requires JavaScript to function, so it is necessary to instantiate MDCSwitch with the HTML.

```js
import {MDCSwitch} from '@material/switch';

const switchControl = new MDCSwitch(document.querySelector('.mdc-switch'));
```

> See [Importing the JS component](../../docs/importing-js.md) for more information on how to import JavaScript.

## Variant

### Initially Disabled Switch

Add the `mdc-switch--disabled` class to the `mdc-switch` element, and the `disabled` attribute to the `mdc-switch__native-control` element to disable the switch. This logic is handled by the `MDCSwitchFoundation.setDisabled` method, but you'll want to avoid a FOUC by initially adding this class and attribute.

```html
<div class="mdc-switch mdc-switch--disabled">
  <div class="mdc-switch__track"></div>
  <div class="mdc-switch__thumb-underlay">
    <div class="mdc-switch__thumb">
      <input type="checkbox" id="another-basic-switch" class="mdc-switch__native-control" role="switch" disabled>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<label for="another-basic-switch">off/on</label>
```

### Initially "On" Switch

Add the `mdc-switch--checked` class to the `mdc-switch` element, and the `checked` attribute to the `mdc-switch__native-control` element to toggle the switch to "on". This logic is handled by the `MDCSwitchFoundation.setChecked` method, but you'll want to avoid a FOUC by initially adding this class and attribute.

```html
<div class="mdc-switch mdc-switch--checked">
  <div class="mdc-switch__track"></div>
  <div class="mdc-switch__thumb-underlay">
    <div class="mdc-switch__thumb">
      <input type="checkbox" id="another-basic-switch" class="mdc-switch__native-control" role="switch" checked>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<label for="another-basic-switch">off/on</label>
```

## Style Customization

### CSS Classes

CSS Class | Description
--- | ---
`mdc-switch` | Mandatory, for the parent element.
`mdc-switch--disabled` | Optional, styles the switch as disabled
`mdc-switch--checked` | Optional, styles the switch as checked ("on")
`mdc-switch__track` | Mandatory, for the track element.
`mdc-switch__thumb-underlay` | Mandatory, for the ripple effect.
`mdc-switch__thumb` | Mandatory, for the thumb element.
`mdc-switch__native-control` | Mandatory, for the hidden input checkbox.

### Sass Mixins

MDC Switch uses [MDC Theme](../mdc-theme)'s `secondary` color by default for the checked (toggled on) state.
Use the following mixins to customize _enabled_ switches. It is not currently possible to customize the color of a
 _disabled_ switch. Disabled switches use the same colors as enabled switches, but with a different opacity value.

Mixin | Description
--- | ---
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-color($color)` | Sets the base color of the track, thumb, and ripple when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-color($color)` | Sets the base color of the track, thumb, and ripple when the switch is toggled off.
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-track-color($color)` | Sets color of the track when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-track-color($color)` | Sets color of the track when the switch is toggled off.
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-thumb-color($color)` | Sets color of the thumb when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-thumb-color($color)` | Sets color of the thumb when the switch is toggled off.
`mdc-switch-toggled-on-ripple-color($color)` | Sets the color of the ripple surrounding the thumb when the switch is toggled on.
`mdc-switch-toggled-off-ripple-color($color)` | Sets the color of the ripple surrounding the thumb when the switch is toggled off.
`mdc-switch-ripple-states-opacity($opacity-map)` | Sets the opacity of the ripple surrounding the thumb in any of the `hover`, `focus`, or `press` states. The `opacity-map` can specify any of these states as keys. States not specified in the map resort to default opacity values.

## `MDCSwitch` Properties and Methods

Property | Value Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`checked` | Boolean | Setter/getter for the switch's checked state
`disabled` | Boolean | Setter/getter for the switch's disabled state

## Usage within Web Frameworks

If you are using a JavaScript framework, such as React or Angular, you can create a Switch for your framework. Depending on your needs, you can use the _Simple Approach: Wrapping MDC Web Vanilla Components_, or the _Advanced Approach: Using Foundations and Adapters_. Please follow the instructions [here](../../docs/integrating-into-frameworks.md).

### `MDCSwitchAdapter`

| Method Signature | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `addClass(className: string) => void` | Adds a class to the root element. |
| `removeClass(className: string) => void` | Removes a class from the root element. |
| `setNativeControlChecked(checked: boolean)` | Sets the checked state of the native control. |
| `setNativeControlDisabled(disabled: boolean)` | Sets the disabled state of the native control. |

### `MDCSwitchFoundation`

| Method Signature | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `setChecked(checked: boolean) => void` | Sets the checked value of the native control and updates styling to reflect the checked state. |
| `setDisabled(disabled: boolean) => void` | Sets the disabled value of the native control and updates styling to reflect the disabled state. |
| `handleChange(evt: Event) => void` | Handles a change event from the native control. |

### `MDCSwitchFoundation` Event Handlers
If wrapping the switch component it is necessary to add an event handler for native control change events that calls the `handleChange` foundation method. For an example of this, see the [`MDCSwitch`](component.ts) component's `initialSyncWithDOM` method.

| Event | Element Selector | Foundation Handler |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `change` | `.mdc-switch__native-control` | `handleChange()` |
