docs/getting-started.md, before:

<!--docs:
title: "Getting Started"
layout: landing
section: docs
path: /docs/getting-started/
-->

# Getting Started

## Quick Start (CDN)

To try Material Components for the web with minimal setup, load the precompiled all-in-one CSS and JS bundles from unpkg:

```html
<head>
  <link href="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
  <script src="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.js"></script>
</head>
```

We also recommend using [Material Icons](https://material.io/tools/icons/) from Google Fonts. (Some of our examples implicitly use Material Icons.)

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/icon?family=Material+Icons">
</head>
```

Then include MDC markup...

```html
<button class="mdc-button foo-button">
  <div class="mdc-button__ripple"></div>
  <span class="mdc-button__label">Button</span>
</button>
```

...and instantiate JavaScript:

```js
mdc.ripple.MDCRipple.attachTo(document.querySelector('.foo-button'));
```

## Installing Locally

Material Components for the web can be installed locally using npm. It is available as a single all-in-one package:

```
npm i material-components-web
```

...or as individual components:

```
npm i @material/button @material/ripple
```

Each package provides precompiled CSS and JS under its `dist` folder. The precompiled JS is converted to UMD format and is consumable directly by browsers or within any workflow that expects to consume ES5. Referencing `@material/foo` within a Node.js context will automatically reference the precompiled JS under `dist`.

However, for optimal results, we recommend consuming MDC Web's ES2015 modules and Sass directly. This is outlined in the steps below.

## Using MDC Web with Sass and ES2015

This section walks through how to [install MDC Web Node modules](https://www.npmjs.com/org/material), and bundle the Sass and JavaScript from those Node modules in your [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) configuration.

You can also see the final code and result in the [Material Starter Kit](https://glitch.com/~material-starter-kit).

> Note: This guide assumes you have Node.js and npm installed locally.

### Step 1: Webpack with Sass

We’re going to use `webpack-dev-server` to demonstrate how webpack bundles our Sass and JavaScript. First, run `npm init` to create a `package.json` file. When complete, add the `start` property to the `scripts` section.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "webpack serve"
  }
}
```

You’ll need all of these Node dependencies:
- [webpack](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack): Bundles Sass and JavaScript
- [webpack-dev-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack-dev-server): Development server
- [sass-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass-loader): Webpack loader to preprocess Sass files
- [sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass): Sass compiler
- [css-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/css-loader): Resolves CSS @import and url() paths
- [extract-loader](https://github.com/peerigon/extract-loader): Extracts the CSS into a `.css` file
- [file-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/file-loader): Serves the `.css` file as a public URL

You can install all of them by running this command:

```
npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-cli webpack-dev-server css-loader sass-loader sass extract-loader file-loader
```

In order to demonstrate how webpack bundles our Sass, you’ll need an `index.html`. This HTML file needs to include CSS. The CSS is generated by sass-loader, which compiles Sass files into CSS. The CSS is extracted into a `.css` file by extract-loader. Create this simple “hello world” `index.html`:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="bundle.css">
  </head>
  <body>Hello World</body>
</html>
```

And create a simple Sass file called `app.scss`:

```scss
body {
  color: blue;
}
```

Then configure webpack to convert `app.scss` into `bundle.css`. For that you need a new `webpack.config.js` file:

```js
module.exports = [{
  entry: './app.scss',
  output: {
    // This is necessary for webpack to compile
    // But we never use style-bundle.js
    filename: 'style-bundle.js',
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'file-loader',
            options: {
              name: 'bundle.css',
            },
          },
          { loader: 'extract-loader' },
          { loader: 'css-loader' },
          {
            loader: 'sass-loader',
            options: {
              // Prefer Dart Sass
              implementation: require('sass'),

              // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
              webpackImporter: false,
            },
          },
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
}];
```

To test your webpack configuration, run:

```
npm start
```

And open http://localhost:8080 in a browser. You should see a blue “Hello World”.

<img src="hello_world.png" alt="Hello World" width="92" height="34">

### Step 2: Include CSS for a component

Now that you have webpack configured to compile Sass into CSS, let's include the Sass files for the Material Design button. First, install the Node dependency:

```
npm install @material/button
```

We need to tell our `app.scss` to import the Sass files for `@material/button`. We can also use Sass mixins to customize the button. Replace your “hello world” version of `app.scss` with this code:

```scss
@use '@material/button/mdc-button';
@use '@material/button';

.foo-button {
  @include button.container-fill-color(darksalmon);
}
```

We also need to configure sass-loader to understand the `@material` imports used by MDC Web. Update your `webpack.config.js` by changing `{ loader: 'sass-loader' }` to:

```js
{
  loader: 'sass-loader',
  options: {
    // Prefer Dart Sass
    implementation: require('sass'),

    // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
    webpackImporter: false,
    sassOptions: {
      includePaths: ['./node_modules']
    },
  }
}
```

> Note: Configuring `includePaths` should suffice for most cases where all MDC Web packages are kept up-to-date
> together. If you encounter problems compiling Sass due to nested `node_modules` directories, see the
> [Appendix](#appendix-configuring-a-sass-importer-for-nested-node_modules) below on how to configure a custom importer
> instead.

In order to add vendor-specific styles to the Sass files, we need to configure `autoprefixer` through PostCSS.

You'll need all of these Node dependencies:
- [autoprefixer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/autoprefixer): Parses CSS and adds vendor prefixes to CSS rules
- [postcss-loader](https://github.com/postcss/postcss-loader): Loader for Webpack used in conjunction with autoprefixer

You can install all of them by running this command:

```
npm install --save-dev autoprefixer postcss-loader
```

Add `autoprefixer` at the top of your `webpack.config.js`:

```js
const autoprefixer = require('autoprefixer');
```

Then add `postcss-loader`, using `autoprefixer` as a plugin:

```js
{ loader: 'extract-loader' },
{ loader: 'css-loader' },
  {
    loader: 'postcss-loader',
    options: {
      postcssOptions: {
        plugins: [
          autoprefixer()
        ]
      }
    } 
  },
{
  loader: 'sass-loader',
  options: {
    sassOptions: {
      includePaths: ['./node_modules']
    },
    // Prefer Dart Sass
    implementation: require('sass'),

    // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
    webpackImporter: false,
  }
},
```

`@material/button` has [documentation](../packages/mdc-button/README.md) about the required HTML for a button. Update your `index.html` to include the MDC Button markup, and add the `foo-button` class to the element:

```html
<body>
  <button class="foo-button mdc-button">
    <div class="mdc-button__ripple"></div>
    <span class="mdc-button__label">Button</span>
  </button>
</body>
```

Now run `npm start` again and open http://localhost:8080. You should see a Material Design button!

<img src="button.png" alt="Button" width="90" height="36">

### Step 3: Webpack with ES2015

We need to configure webpack to bundle ES2015 JavaScript into standard JavaScript, through [babel](https://babeljs.io). You’ll need all of these dependencies:

- [@babel/core](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@babel/core)
- [babel-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-loader): Compiles JavaScript files using babel
- [@babel/preset-env](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@babel/preset-env): Preset for compiling es2015

You can install all of them by running this command:

```
npm install --save-dev @babel/core babel-loader @babel/preset-env
```

In order to demonstrate how webpack bundles our JavaScript, you’ll need to update `index.html` to include JavaScript. The JavaScript file is generated by babel-loader, which compiles ES2015 files into JavaScript. Add this script tag to `index.html` before the closing `</body>` tag:

```html
<script src="bundle.js" async></script>
```

And create a simple ES2015 file called `app.js`:

```js
console.log('hello world');
```

Then configure webpack to convert `app.js` into `bundle.js` by modifying the following properties in the `webpack.config.js` file:

1. Change entry to an array containing both `app.scss` and `app.js`:
   ```js
   entry: ['./app.scss', './app.js']
   ```
2. Change `output.filename` to be `bundle.js`:
   ```js
   output: {
     filename: 'bundle.js',
   }
   ```
3. Add the `babel-loader` object to the rules array after the `sass-loader` object:
   ```js
   {
     test: /\.js$/,
     loader: 'babel-loader',
     query: {
       presets: ['@babel/preset-env'],
     },
   }
   ```

The final `webpack.config.js` file should look like this:

```js
const autoprefixer = require('autoprefixer');

module.exports = {
  entry: ['./app.scss', './app.js'],
  output: {
    filename: 'bundle.js',
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'file-loader',
            options: {
              name: 'bundle.css',
            },
          },
          {loader: 'extract-loader'},
          {loader: 'css-loader'},
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                plugins: [
                  autoprefixer()
                ]
              }
            } 
          },
          {
            loader: 'sass-loader',
            options: {
              // Prefer Dart Sass
              implementation: require('sass'),

              // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
              webpackImporter: false,
              sassOptions: {
                includePaths: ['./node_modules'],
              },
            },
          }
        ],
      },
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        loader: 'babel-loader',
        query: {
          presets: ['@babel/preset-env'],
        },
      }
    ],
  },
};
```

Now run `npm start` again and open http://localhost:8080. You should see a “hello world” in the console.

### Step 4: Include JavaScript for a component

Now that you have webpack configured to compile ES2015 into JavaScript, let's include the ES2015 files from the Material Design ripple. First, install the Node dependency:

```
npm install @material/ripple
```

We need to tell our `app.js` to import the ES2015 file for `@material/ripple`. We also need to initialize an `MDCRipple` with a DOM element. Replace your “hello world” version of `app.js` with this code:

```js
import {MDCRipple} from '@material/ripple/index';
const ripple = new MDCRipple(document.querySelector('.foo-button'));
```

> Note: We explicitly reference `index` within each MDC Web package in order to import the ES2015 source directly.
> This allows for tree-shaking and avoiding duplicate code for common dependencies (e.g. Ripple).
> However, it requires transpiling the MDC Web modules using the tools installed in Step 3.

Now run `npm start` again and open http://localhost:8080. You should see a Material Design ripple on the button!

<img src="button_with_ripple.png" alt="Button with Ripple" width="90" height="36">

### Step 5: Build Assets for Production

Up to this point, we've used `webpack-dev-server` to preview our work with live updates. However, `webpack-dev-server` is not intended for production use. Instead, we should generate production-ready assets.

Add another script to `package.json`:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "build": "webpack",
    "start": "webpack serve"
  }
```

Now run the following command:

```
npm run build
```

This will produce `bundle.js` and `bundle.css` in the project directory. These contain the compiled CSS and transpiled JS, which you can then copy into a directory served by any web server.

## Appendix: Configuring a Sass Importer for Nested node_modules

It is possible to end up with nested `node_modules` folders if you have dependencies on conflicting versions of
individual MDC Web packages. This may lead to errors when attempting to compile Sass with the `includePaths`
configuration shown above, since Sass is only scanning for `@material` packages under the top-level `node_modules`
directory.

Alternatively, you can implement an importer as follows, which makes use of node's module resolution algorithm to find
the dependency nearest to the file that imported it. Add the following code near the top of your `webpack.config.js`
(before the `exports`):

```js
const path = require('path');

function tryResolve_(url, sourceFilename) {
  // Put require.resolve in a try/catch to avoid node-sass failing with cryptic libsass errors
  // when the importer throws
  try {
    return require.resolve(url, {paths: [path.dirname(sourceFilename)]});
  } catch (e) {
    return '';
  }
}

function tryResolveScss(url, sourceFilename) {
  // Support omission of .scss and leading _
  const normalizedUrl = url.endsWith('.scss') ? url : `${url}.scss`;
  return tryResolve_(normalizedUrl, sourceFilename) ||
    tryResolve_(path.join(path.dirname(normalizedUrl), `_${path.basename(normalizedUrl)}`),
      sourceFilename);
}

function materialImporter(url, prev) {
  if (url.startsWith('@material')) {
    const resolved = tryResolveScss(url, prev);
    return {file: resolved || url};
  }
  return {file: url};
}
```

Then update your `sass-loader` config to the following:

```js
 {
   loader: 'sass-loader',
   options: {   
     // Prefer Dart Sass
     implementation: require('sass'),

     // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
     webpackImporter: false,
     sassOptions: {
       importer: materialImporter,
       includePaths: ['./node_modules'],
     },
   },
 }
```

Commit message:

Added online version of autoprefixer.
Added online version of Autoprefixer. So users can instantly use it without installing it.

docs/getting-started.md, after:

<!--docs:
title: "Getting Started"
layout: landing
section: docs
path: /docs/getting-started/
-->

# Getting Started

## Quick Start (CDN)

To try Material Components for the web with minimal setup, load the precompiled all-in-one CSS and JS bundles from unpkg:

```html
<head>
  <link href="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
  <script src="https://unpkg.com/material-components-web@latest/dist/material-components-web.min.js"></script>
</head>
```

We also recommend using [Material Icons](https://material.io/tools/icons/) from Google Fonts. (Some of our examples implicitly use Material Icons.)

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/icon?family=Material+Icons">
</head>
```

Then include MDC markup...

```html
<button class="mdc-button foo-button">
  <div class="mdc-button__ripple"></div>
  <span class="mdc-button__label">Button</span>
</button>
```

...and instantiate JavaScript:

```js
mdc.ripple.MDCRipple.attachTo(document.querySelector('.foo-button'));
```

## Installing Locally

Material Components for the web can be installed locally using npm. It is available as a single all-in-one package:

```
npm i material-components-web
```

...or as individual components:

```
npm i @material/button @material/ripple
```

Each package provides precompiled CSS and JS under its `dist` folder. The precompiled JS is converted to UMD format and is consumable directly by browsers or within any workflow that expects to consume ES5. Referencing `@material/foo` within a Node.js context will automatically reference the precompiled JS under `dist`.

However, for optimal results, we recommend consuming MDC Web's ES2015 modules and Sass directly. This is outlined in the steps below.

## Using MDC Web with Sass and ES2015

This section walks through how to [install MDC Web Node modules](https://www.npmjs.com/org/material), and bundle the Sass and JavaScript from those Node modules in your [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) configuration.

You can also see the final code and result in the [Material Starter Kit](https://glitch.com/~material-starter-kit).

> Note: This guide assumes you have Node.js and npm installed locally.

### Step 1: Webpack with Sass

We’re going to use `webpack-dev-server` to demonstrate how webpack bundles our Sass and JavaScript. First, run `npm init` to create a `package.json` file. When complete, add the `start` property to the `scripts` section.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "webpack serve"
  }
}
```

You’ll need all of these Node dependencies:
- [webpack](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack): Bundles Sass and JavaScript
- [webpack-dev-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack-dev-server): Development server
- [sass-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass-loader): Webpack loader to preprocess Sass files
- [sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass): Sass compiler
- [css-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/css-loader): Resolves CSS @import and url() paths
- [extract-loader](https://github.com/peerigon/extract-loader): Extracts the CSS into a `.css` file
- [file-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/file-loader): Serves the `.css` file as a public URL

You can install all of them by running this command:

```
npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-cli webpack-dev-server css-loader sass-loader sass extract-loader file-loader
```

In order to demonstrate how webpack bundles our Sass, you’ll need an `index.html`. This HTML file needs to include CSS. The CSS is generated by sass-loader, which compiles Sass files into CSS. The CSS is extracted into a `.css` file by extract-loader. Create this simple “hello world” `index.html`:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="bundle.css">
  </head>
  <body>Hello World</body>
</html>
```

And create a simple Sass file called `app.scss`:

```scss
body {
  color: blue;
}
```

Then configure webpack to convert `app.scss` into `bundle.css`. For that you need a new `webpack.config.js` file:

```js
module.exports = [{
  entry: './app.scss',
  output: {
    // This is necessary for webpack to compile
    // But we never use style-bundle.js
    filename: 'style-bundle.js',
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'file-loader',
            options: {
              name: 'bundle.css',
            },
          },
          { loader: 'extract-loader' },
          { loader: 'css-loader' },
          {
            loader: 'sass-loader',
            options: {
              // Prefer Dart Sass
              implementation: require('sass'),

              // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
              webpackImporter: false,
            },
          },
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
}];
```

To test your webpack configuration, run:

```
npm start
```

And open http://localhost:8080 in a browser. You should see a blue “Hello World”.

<img src="hello_world.png" alt="Hello World" width="92" height="34">

### Step 2: Include CSS for a component

Now that you have webpack configured to compile Sass into CSS, let's include the Sass files for the Material Design button. First, install the Node dependency:

```
npm install @material/button
```

We need to tell our `app.scss` to import the Sass files for `@material/button`. We can also use Sass mixins to customize the button. Replace your “hello world” version of `app.scss` with this code:

```scss
@use '@material/button/mdc-button';
@use '@material/button';

.foo-button {
  @include button.container-fill-color(darksalmon);
}
```

We also need to configure sass-loader to understand the `@material` imports used by MDC Web. Update your `webpack.config.js` by changing `{ loader: 'sass-loader' }` to:

```js
{
  loader: 'sass-loader',
  options: {
    // Prefer Dart Sass
    implementation: require('sass'),

    // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
    webpackImporter: false,
    sassOptions: {
      includePaths: ['./node_modules']
    },
  }
}
```

> Note: Configuring `includePaths` should suffice for most cases where all MDC Web packages are kept up-to-date
> together. If you encounter problems compiling Sass due to nested `node_modules` directories, see the
> [Appendix](#appendix-configuring-a-sass-importer-for-nested-node_modules) below on how to configure a custom importer
> instead.

In order to add vendor-specific styles to the Sass files, we need to configure `autoprefixer` through PostCSS.

You'll need all of these Node dependencies:
- [autoprefixer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/autoprefixer) ([available as an online tool](https://goonlinetools.com/autoprefixer/)): Parses CSS and adds vendor prefixes to CSS rules
- [postcss-loader](https://github.com/postcss/postcss-loader): Loader for Webpack used in conjunction with autoprefixer

You can install all of them by running this command:

```
npm install --save-dev autoprefixer postcss-loader
```

Add `autoprefixer` at the top of your `webpack.config.js`:

```js
const autoprefixer = require('autoprefixer');
```

Then add `postcss-loader`, using `autoprefixer` as a plugin:

```js
{ loader: 'extract-loader' },
{ loader: 'css-loader' },
  {
    loader: 'postcss-loader',
    options: {
      postcssOptions: {
        plugins: [
          autoprefixer()
        ]
      }
    } 
  },
{
  loader: 'sass-loader',
  options: {
    sassOptions: {
      includePaths: ['./node_modules']
    },
    // Prefer Dart Sass
    implementation: require('sass'),

    // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
    webpackImporter: false,
  }
},
```

`@material/button` has [documentation](../packages/mdc-button/README.md) about the required HTML for a button. Update your `index.html` to include the MDC Button markup, and add the `foo-button` class to the element:

```html
<body>
  <button class="foo-button mdc-button">
    <div class="mdc-button__ripple"></div>
    <span class="mdc-button__label">Button</span>
  </button>
</body>
```

Now run `npm start` again and open http://localhost:8080. You should see a Material Design button!

<img src="button.png" alt="Button" width="90" height="36">

### Step 3: Webpack with ES2015

We need to configure webpack to bundle ES2015 JavaScript into standard JavaScript, through [babel](https://babeljs.io). You’ll need all of these dependencies:

- [@babel/core](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@babel/core)
- [babel-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-loader): Compiles JavaScript files using babel
- [@babel/preset-env](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@babel/preset-env): Preset for compiling es2015

You can install all of them by running this command:

```
npm install --save-dev @babel/core babel-loader @babel/preset-env
```

In order to demonstrate how webpack bundles our JavaScript, you’ll need to update `index.html` to include JavaScript. The JavaScript file is generated by babel-loader, which compiles ES2015 files into JavaScript. Add this script tag to `index.html` before the closing `</body>` tag:

```html
<script src="bundle.js" async></script>
```

And create a simple ES2015 file called `app.js`:

```js
console.log('hello world');
```

Then configure webpack to convert `app.js` into `bundle.js` by modifying the following properties in the `webpack.config.js` file:

1. Change entry to an array containing both `app.scss` and `app.js`:
   ```js
   entry: ['./app.scss', './app.js']
   ```
2. Change `output.filename` to be `bundle.js`:
   ```js
   output: {
     filename: 'bundle.js',
   }
   ```
3. Add the `babel-loader` object to the rules array after the `sass-loader` object:
   ```js
   {
     test: /\.js$/,
     loader: 'babel-loader',
     query: {
       presets: ['@babel/preset-env'],
     },
   }
   ```

The final `webpack.config.js` file should look like this:

```js
const autoprefixer = require('autoprefixer');

module.exports = {
  entry: ['./app.scss', './app.js'],
  output: {
    filename: 'bundle.js',
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'file-loader',
            options: {
              name: 'bundle.css',
            },
          },
          {loader: 'extract-loader'},
          {loader: 'css-loader'},
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                plugins: [
                  autoprefixer()
                ]
              }
            } 
          },
          {
            loader: 'sass-loader',
            options: {
              // Prefer Dart Sass
              implementation: require('sass'),

              // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
              webpackImporter: false,
              sassOptions: {
                includePaths: ['./node_modules'],
              },
            },
          }
        ],
      },
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        loader: 'babel-loader',
        query: {
          presets: ['@babel/preset-env'],
        },
      }
    ],
  },
};
```

Now run `npm start` again and open http://localhost:8080. You should see a “hello world” in the console.

### Step 4: Include JavaScript for a component

Now that you have webpack configured to compile ES2015 into JavaScript, let's include the ES2015 files from the Material Design ripple. First, install the Node dependency:

```
npm install @material/ripple
```

We need to tell our `app.js` to import the ES2015 file for `@material/ripple`. We also need to initialize an `MDCRipple` with a DOM element. Replace your “hello world” version of `app.js` with this code:

```js
import {MDCRipple} from '@material/ripple/index';
const ripple = new MDCRipple(document.querySelector('.foo-button'));
```

> Note: We explicitly reference `index` within each MDC Web package in order to import the ES2015 source directly.
> This allows for tree-shaking and avoiding duplicate code for common dependencies (e.g. Ripple).
> However, it requires transpiling the MDC Web modules using the tools installed in Step 3.

Now run `npm start` again and open http://localhost:8080. You should see a Material Design ripple on the button!

<img src="button_with_ripple.png" alt="Button with Ripple" width="90" height="36">

### Step 5: Build Assets for Production

Up to this point, we've used `webpack-dev-server` to preview our work with live updates. However, `webpack-dev-server` is not intended for production use. Instead, we should generate production-ready assets.

Add another script to `package.json`:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "build": "webpack",
    "start": "webpack serve"
  }
```

Now run the following command:

```
npm run build
```

This will produce `bundle.js` and `bundle.css` in the project directory. These contain the compiled CSS and transpiled JS, which you can then copy into a directory served by any web server.

## Appendix: Configuring a Sass Importer for Nested node_modules

It is possible to end up with nested `node_modules` folders if you have dependencies on conflicting versions of
individual MDC Web packages. This may lead to errors when attempting to compile Sass with the `includePaths`
configuration shown above, since Sass is only scanning for `@material` packages under the top-level `node_modules`
directory.

Alternatively, you can implement an importer as follows, which makes use of node's module resolution algorithm to find
the dependency nearest to the file that imported it. Add the following code near the top of your `webpack.config.js`
(before the `exports`):

```js
const path = require('path');

function tryResolve_(url, sourceFilename) {
  // Put require.resolve in a try/catch to avoid node-sass failing with cryptic libsass errors
  // when the importer throws
  try {
    return require.resolve(url, {paths: [path.dirname(sourceFilename)]});
  } catch (e) {
    return '';
  }
}

function tryResolveScss(url, sourceFilename) {
  // Support omission of .scss and leading _
  const normalizedUrl = url.endsWith('.scss') ? url : `${url}.scss`;
  return tryResolve_(normalizedUrl, sourceFilename) ||
    tryResolve_(path.join(path.dirname(normalizedUrl), `_${path.basename(normalizedUrl)}`),
      sourceFilename);
}

function materialImporter(url, prev) {
  if (url.startsWith('@material')) {
    const resolved = tryResolveScss(url, prev);
    return {file: resolved || url};
  }
  return {file: url};
}
```

Then update your `sass-loader` config to the following:

```js
 {
   loader: 'sass-loader',
   options: {   
     // Prefer Dart Sass
     implementation: require('sass'),

     // See https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader/issues/804
     webpackImporter: false,
     sassOptions: {
       importer: materialImporter,
       includePaths: ['./node_modules'],
     },
   },
 }
```
