test/screenshot/README.md, before:

# Screenshot Tests

Prevent visual regressions by running screenshot tests on every PR.

## Quick start

### 1. Google Cloud SDK

Install the `gcloud` SDK and command line tools (including `gsutil`):

```bash
curl https://sdk.cloud.google.com | bash
```

Restart your shell:

```bash
exec -l $SHELL
```

Authorize your GCP account:

```bash
gcloud init --project=material-components-web
```

### 2. API credentials

CBT credentials can be found on the [CrossBrowserTesting.com > Account](https://crossbrowsertesting.com/account) page. \
Your `Authkey` is listed under the `User Profile` section.

Add the following to your `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.bashrc` file:

```bash
export MDC_CBT_USERNAME='you@example.com'
export MDC_CBT_AUTHKEY='example'
```

Restart your shell:

```bash
exec -l $SHELL
```

### 3. Test your changes

Create an experimental branch:

```bash
git checkout master
git pull
git checkout -b experimental/$USER/screenshot-test
npm install
```

Modify a Sass file:

```bash
echo -e '\n.mdc-button:not(:disabled) {\n  color: red;\n}' >> packages/mdc-button/mdc-button.scss
```
 
Run the tests:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test
```

You should see something like this in the terminal:

```
64 screenshots changed!

https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.html
```

## Basic usage

### Local dev server

The deprecated `npm run dev` command has been replaced by:

```bash
npm start
```

Open http://localhost:8080/ in your browser to view the test pages.

Source files are automatically recompiled when they change.

### Updating "golden" screenshots

On the
[report page](https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.html),
select the checkboxes for all screenshots you want to approve, and click the "Approve" button at the bottom of the page.

This will display a modal dialog containing a CLI command to copy/paste:

```bash
npm run screenshot:approve -- \
  --all \
  --report=https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.json
```

**IMPORTANT:** Note the `--` between the script name and its arguments. This is required by `npm`.

This command will update your local `test/screenshot/golden.json` file with the newly captured screenshots.

### Rerunning a subset of tests

You can rerun a subset of the tests without running the entire suite, filtering by browser and/or URL.

On the
[report page](https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.html),
select the checkboxes for all screenshots you want to retry, and click the "Retry" button at the bottom of the page.

This will display a modal dialog containing a CLI command to copy/paste:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=mdc-button/classes/dense \
  --browser=ie@11
```

**IMPORTANT:** Note the `--` between the script name and its arguments. This is required by `npm`.

You can rerun multiple screenshots by passing an argument multiple times:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=mdc-button/classes/dense \
  --url=mdc-fab/classes/mini \
  --browser=ie@11 \
  --browser=chrome
```

These options are treated as regular expressions, so partial matches are possible. For example:

* `ie@11` matches `desktop_windows_ie@11`
* `chrome` matches `desktop_windows_chrome@latest` and `mobile_android_chrome@latest`

See `test/screenshot/browser.json` for the full list of supported browsers.

## Advanced usage

Use `--help` to see all available CLI options:

```bash
npm run screenshot:approve -- --help
npm run screenshot:build -- --help
npm run screenshot:demo -- --help
npm run screenshot:serve -- --help
npm run screenshot:test -- --help
```

**IMPORTANT:** Note the `--` between the script name and its arguments. This is required by `npm`.

### Creating new screenshot tests

The easiest way to create new screenshot tests is to copy an existing test page or directory, and modify it for your 
component.

For example, to create tests for `mdc-radio`, start by copying and renaming the `mdc-checkbox` tests:

```bash
cp -r test/screenshot/spec/mdc-{checkbox,radio}
sed -i '' 's/-checkbox/-radio/g' test/screenshot/spec/mdc-radio/*.* test/screenshot/spec/mdc-radio/*/*.*
vim ...
```

#### Component sizes

There are two types of components:

1. **Large** fullpage components (dialog, drawer, top app bar, etc.)
2. **Small** widget components (button, checkbox, linear progress, etc.)

Test pages for **small** components must have a `test-viewport--mobile` class on the `<main>` element:

```html
<main class="test-viewport test-viewport--mobile">
```

This class ensures that all components on the page fit inside an "average" mobile viewport without scrolling.
This is necessary because most browsers' WebDriver implementations do not support taking screenshots of the entire
`document`.

Test pages for **large** components, however, must _not_ use the `test-viewport--mobile` class:

```html
<main class="test-viewport">
```

For **small** components, you also need to specify the dimensions of the `test-cell--FOO` class in your component's 
`fixture.scss` file:

```css
.test-cell--button {
  width: 171px;
  height: 71px;
}
```

The dimensions should be large enough to fit all variants of your component, with an extra ~`10px` or so of wiggle room.
This prevents noisy diffs in the event that your component's `height` or `margin` changes unexpectedly.

#### CSS classes

CSS Class | Description
--- | ---
`test-viewport` | Mandatory. Wraps all page content.
`test-viewport--mobile` | Mandatory (**small** components only). Ensures that all page content fits in a mobile viewport.
`test-cell--<FOO>` | Mandatory (**small** components only). Sets the dimensions of cells in the grid.
`custom-<FOO>--<MIXIN>` | Mandatory (mixin test pages only). Calls a single Sass theme mixin.

\* _`<FOO>` is the name of the component, minus the `mdc-` prefix. E.g.: `radio`, `top-app-bar`._ \
\* _`<MIXIN>` is the name of the Sass mixin, minus the `mdc-<FOO>-` prefix. E.g.: `container-fill-color`._ 

### Public demos

```bash
npm run screenshot:demo
```

This will upload all test assets (HTML/CSS/JS files) to a public URL and print the URL to the terminal.

The URL can then be shared with designers or other developers.

### Excluding a subset of tests

You can exclude specific browsers and URLs by prefixing them with a `-`:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=-button \
  --browser=-edge
```

Positive and negative patterns can be mixed and matched:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=button,-mixins \
  --browser=desktop,-ie@11
```

**NOTE:** Negative patterns _always_ take precedence over positive patterns, regardless of the order they appear in the
command line.

### Diffing against other git branches and tags

By default, screenshots are diffed against your local `test/screenshot/golden.json` file.
This enables incremental diff reports, which are typically smaller and easier to review.

You can diff against a local/remote git branch, tag, or commit with the `--diff-base` flag:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=origin/master
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=fix/fab/icon-alignment-ie11
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=v0.37.0
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=01abc11e0
```

URLs and file paths are also supported:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=/tmp/golden.json
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/07/12/05_07_59_278/golden.json
```

### Local Selenium browsers

By default, screenshot tests run remotely on CrossBrowserTesting.com's Selenium VMs.

However, it's also possible to run the tests on your own machine using the `--offline` CLI flag, which disables all
external network requests. Local tests typically take about 1/4 as long to run as remote tests, which makes them useful 
for rapid iterative development.

You should expect to see a large number of rendering differences between your machine and CBT's VMs. The idea is to run
the offline tests first with no local changes, approve the rendering diffs, and then begin making changes to the CSS.

When you're ready to create a PR, you would then run the tests remotely on CBT.

For example:

1. Create a new feature branch:

    ```bash
    $ git checkout -b feat/button/fancy
    ```

2. Capture baseline screenshots in all browsers installed on the user's machine:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button --retries=0 --offline
    34 screenshots changed!
    ```

3. Approve rendering differences:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:approve -- --all --report=http://localhost:9000/advorak/2018/07/15/04_11_46_560/report/report.json
    ```

4. Rerun the tests locally - there should be zero diffs:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button --retries=0 --offline
    0 screenshots changed!
    ```

5. Make changes to a component's CSS:

    ```bash
    $ echo '.mdc-button:not(:disabled){color:red}' >> packages/mdc-button/mdc-button.scss
    ```

6. Rerun the tests locally until you're satisfied with how they look:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button --retries=0 --offline
    30 screenshots changed!
    Diff report: http://localhost:9000/advorak/2018/07/15/04_11_46_560/report/report.html
    $ git add test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git commit -m 'Update golden.json with offline screenshots'
    ```

7. Once you're happy with your changes, revert the offline-generated golden images (because they won't match CBT):

    ```bash
    $ git fetch
    $ git checkout origin/master -- test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git add test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git commit -m 'Revert offline changes to golden.json'
    ```

8. Run the tests remotely on CBT and create a PR:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button
    $ npm run screenshot:approve -- --all --report=https://.../report.json
    $ git add test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git commit -m 'feat(button): Fancy variant'
    $ git push -u origin
    ```

## Writing tests

**Goal**: Cover of every line of CSS generated by our Sass. This includes all CSS selectors.

### Guidelines

1.  Keep HTML files _small_ and _focused_. This makes it easier to review diffs.

2.  Each page should generally target a single logical "variant" of a component. For example:
    - One "block" CSS class (e.g., `mdc-button`)
    - One "modifier" CSS class (e.g., `mdc-button--dense`)
    - One Sass mixin (e.g., `mdc-button-ink-color`)

3.  File structure:

        /test/screenshot
            /spec
                /mdc-foo
                    /classes
                        - baseline.html
                        - dense.html
                        - ...
                    /mixins
                        - fill-color.html
                        - filled-accessible.html
                        - ink-color.html
                        - ...
                    /fixture.js
                    /fixture.scss

4.  Do not test _combinations_ of mixins and modifier classes unless:
    1.  It's necessary to prevent a regression; or
    2.  We explicitly support the combination, and the implementation is likely to have bugs \
        (e.g., `.mdc-foo--dense` and `mdc-foo-outline-width()` both set `line-height`)

### Example test page

![filled button screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/409245/40395978-7f3e0476-5ddf-11e8-9262-eb0dfacb05e5.png)

Commit message:

docs: Updated screenshot tests README file with GCP service account details

test/screenshot/README.md, after:

# Screenshot Tests

Prevent visual regressions by running screenshot tests on every PR.

## Quick start

### 1. Google Cloud SDK

Install the `gcloud` SDK and command line tools (including `gsutil`):

```bash
curl https://sdk.cloud.google.com | bash
```

Create GCP service account key:

- Go to the [Create Service Account Key Page](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/serviceaccountkey).
- Make sure you're logged into `material-components-web` project.
- Choose Service account: Screenshot uploader, select JSON radio button and click 'Create' to download JSON file.
- Add the following to your `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.bashrc` file:

```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="/home/user/Downloads/[FILE_NAME].json"
```

Where `/home/user/Downloads/[FILE_NAME].json` is full path of downloaded JSON file.

Restart your shell:

```bash
exec -l $SHELL
```

Authorize your GCP account:

```bash
gcloud init --project=material-components-web
```

### 2. API credentials

CBT credentials can be found on the [CrossBrowserTesting.com > Account](https://crossbrowsertesting.com/account) page. \
Your `Authkey` is listed under the `User Profile` section.

Add the following to your `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.bashrc` file:

```bash
export MDC_CBT_USERNAME='you@example.com'
export MDC_CBT_AUTHKEY='example'
```

Restart your shell:

```bash
exec -l $SHELL
```

### 3. Test your changes

Create an experimental branch:

```bash
git checkout master
git pull
git checkout -b experimental/$USER/screenshot-test
npm install
```

Modify a Sass file:

```bash
echo -e '\n.mdc-button:not(:disabled) {\n  color: red;\n}' >> packages/mdc-button/mdc-button.scss
```

Run the tests:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test
```

You should see something like this in the terminal:

```
64 screenshots changed!

https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.html
```

## Basic usage

### Local dev server

The deprecated `npm run dev` command has been replaced by:

```bash
npm start
```

Open http://localhost:8080/ in your browser to view the test pages.

Source files are automatically recompiled when they change.

### Updating "golden" screenshots

On the
[report page](https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.html),
select the checkboxes for all screenshots you want to approve, and click the "Approve" button at the bottom of the page.

This will display a modal dialog containing a CLI command to copy/paste:

```bash
npm run screenshot:approve -- \
  --all \
  --report=https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.json
```

**IMPORTANT:** Note the `--` between the script name and its arguments. This is required by `npm`.

This command will update your local `test/screenshot/golden.json` file with the newly captured screenshots.

### Rerunning a subset of tests

You can rerun a subset of the tests without running the entire suite, filtering by browser and/or URL.

On the
[report page](https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/08/02/16_20_43_829/report/report.html),
select the checkboxes for all screenshots you want to retry, and click the "Retry" button at the bottom of the page.

This will display a modal dialog containing a CLI command to copy/paste:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=mdc-button/classes/dense \
  --browser=ie@11
```

**IMPORTANT:** Note the `--` between the script name and its arguments. This is required by `npm`.

You can rerun multiple screenshots by passing an argument multiple times:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=mdc-button/classes/dense \
  --url=mdc-fab/classes/mini \
  --browser=ie@11 \
  --browser=chrome
```

These options are treated as regular expressions, so partial matches are possible. For example:

* `ie@11` matches `desktop_windows_ie@11`
* `chrome` matches `desktop_windows_chrome@latest` and `mobile_android_chrome@latest`

See `test/screenshot/browser.json` for the full list of supported browsers.

## Advanced usage

Use `--help` to see all available CLI options:

```bash
npm run screenshot:approve -- --help
npm run screenshot:build -- --help
npm run screenshot:demo -- --help
npm run screenshot:serve -- --help
npm run screenshot:test -- --help
```

**IMPORTANT:** Note the `--` between the script name and its arguments. This is required by `npm`.

### Creating new screenshot tests

The easiest way to create new screenshot tests is to copy an existing test page or directory, and modify it for your
component.

For example, to create tests for `mdc-radio`, start by copying and renaming the `mdc-checkbox` tests:

```bash
cp -r test/screenshot/spec/mdc-{checkbox,radio}
sed -i '' 's/-checkbox/-radio/g' test/screenshot/spec/mdc-radio/*.* test/screenshot/spec/mdc-radio/*/*.*
vim ...
```

#### Component sizes

There are two types of components:

1. **Large** fullpage components (dialog, drawer, top app bar, etc.)
2. **Small** widget components (button, checkbox, linear progress, etc.)

Test pages for **small** components must have a `test-viewport--mobile` class on the `<main>` element:

```html
<main class="test-viewport test-viewport--mobile">
```

This class ensures that all components on the page fit inside an "average" mobile viewport without scrolling.
This is necessary because most browsers' WebDriver implementations do not support taking screenshots of the entire
`document`.

Test pages for **large** components, however, must _not_ use the `test-viewport--mobile` class:

```html
<main class="test-viewport">
```

For **small** components, you also need to specify the dimensions of the `test-cell--FOO` class in your component's
`fixture.scss` file:

```css
.test-cell--button {
  width: 171px;
  height: 71px;
}
```

The dimensions should be large enough to fit all variants of your component, with an extra ~`10px` or so of wiggle room.
This prevents noisy diffs in the event that your component's `height` or `margin` changes unexpectedly.

#### CSS classes

CSS Class | Description
--- | ---
`test-viewport` | Mandatory. Wraps all page content.
`test-viewport--mobile` | Mandatory (**small** components only). Ensures that all page content fits in a mobile viewport.
`test-cell--<FOO>` | Mandatory (**small** components only). Sets the dimensions of cells in the grid.
`custom-<FOO>--<MIXIN>` | Mandatory (mixin test pages only). Calls a single Sass theme mixin.

\* _`<FOO>` is the name of the component, minus the `mdc-` prefix. E.g.: `radio`, `top-app-bar`._ \
\* _`<MIXIN>` is the name of the Sass mixin, minus the `mdc-<FOO>-` prefix. E.g.: `container-fill-color`._

### Public demos

```bash
npm run screenshot:demo
```

This will upload all test assets (HTML/CSS/JS files) to a public URL and print the URL to the terminal.

The URL can then be shared with designers or other developers.

### Excluding a subset of tests

You can exclude specific browsers and URLs by prefixing them with a `-`:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=-button \
  --browser=-edge
```

Positive and negative patterns can be mixed and matched:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- \
  --url=button,-mixins \
  --browser=desktop,-ie@11
```

**NOTE:** Negative patterns _always_ take precedence over positive patterns, regardless of the order they appear in the
command line.

### Diffing against other git branches and tags

By default, screenshots are diffed against your local `test/screenshot/golden.json` file.
This enables incremental diff reports, which are typically smaller and easier to review.

You can diff against a local/remote git branch, tag, or commit with the `--diff-base` flag:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=origin/master
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=fix/fab/icon-alignment-ie11
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=v0.37.0
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=01abc11e0
```

URLs and file paths are also supported:

```bash
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=/tmp/golden.json
npm run screenshot:test -- --diff-base=https://storage.googleapis.com/mdc-web-screenshot-tests/advorak/2018/07/12/05_07_59_278/golden.json
```

### Local Selenium browsers

By default, screenshot tests run remotely on CrossBrowserTesting.com's Selenium VMs.

However, it's also possible to run the tests on your own machine using the `--offline` CLI flag, which disables all
external network requests. Local tests typically take about 1/4 as long to run as remote tests, which makes them useful
for rapid iterative development.

You should expect to see a large number of rendering differences between your machine and CBT's VMs. The idea is to run
the offline tests first with no local changes, approve the rendering diffs, and then begin making changes to the CSS.

When you're ready to create a PR, you would then run the tests remotely on CBT.

For example:

1. Create a new feature branch:

    ```bash
    $ git checkout -b feat/button/fancy
    ```

2. Capture baseline screenshots in all browsers installed on the user's machine:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button --retries=0 --offline
    34 screenshots changed!
    ```

3. Approve rendering differences:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:approve -- --all --report=http://localhost:9000/advorak/2018/07/15/04_11_46_560/report/report.json
    ```

4. Rerun the tests locally - there should be zero diffs:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button --retries=0 --offline
    0 screenshots changed!
    ```

5. Make changes to a component's CSS:

    ```bash
    $ echo '.mdc-button:not(:disabled){color:red}' >> packages/mdc-button/mdc-button.scss
    ```

6. Rerun the tests locally until you're satisfied with how they look:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button --retries=0 --offline
    30 screenshots changed!
    Diff report: http://localhost:9000/advorak/2018/07/15/04_11_46_560/report/report.html
    $ git add test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git commit -m 'Update golden.json with offline screenshots'
    ```

7. Once you're happy with your changes, revert the offline-generated golden images (because they won't match CBT):

    ```bash
    $ git fetch
    $ git checkout origin/master -- test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git add test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git commit -m 'Revert offline changes to golden.json'
    ```

8. Run the tests remotely on CBT and create a PR:

    ```bash
    $ npm run screenshot:test -- --url=mdc-button
    $ npm run screenshot:approve -- --all --report=https://.../report.json
    $ git add test/screenshot/golden.json
    $ git commit -m 'feat(button): Fancy variant'
    $ git push -u origin
    ```

## Writing tests

**Goal**: Cover of every line of CSS generated by our Sass. This includes all CSS selectors.

### Guidelines

1.  Keep HTML files _small_ and _focused_. This makes it easier to review diffs.

2.  Each page should generally target a single logical "variant" of a component. For example:
    - One "block" CSS class (e.g., `mdc-button`)
    - One "modifier" CSS class (e.g., `mdc-button--dense`)
    - One Sass mixin (e.g., `mdc-button-ink-color`)

3.  File structure:

        /test/screenshot
            /spec
                /mdc-foo
                    /classes
                        - baseline.html
                        - dense.html
                        - ...
                    /mixins
                        - fill-color.html
                        - filled-accessible.html
                        - ink-color.html
                        - ...
                    /fixture.js
                    /fixture.scss

4.  Do not test _combinations_ of mixins and modifier classes unless:
    1.  It's necessary to prevent a regression; or
    2.  We explicitly support the combination, and the implementation is likely to have bugs \
        (e.g., `.mdc-foo--dense` and `mdc-foo-outline-width()` both set `line-height`)

### Example test page

![filled button screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/409245/40395978-7f3e0476-5ddf-11e8-9262-eb0dfacb05e5.png)
